pageTitle: Jurism Tech: The Legal Resource Registry
author: Frank Bennett

> This is the first of a series of posts describing the architecture
> behind Jurism's features. These will serve as an *aide-mémoire* for
> myself, as documentation for interested users, and as a reference
> for developers, librarians, and others contributing to the Jurism
> ecosystem. This installment covers the Legal Resource Registry
> (LRR), which is at the core of Jurism's support for law. If you want
> to know how Jurism produces legal citations, this is a good place to
> start.

${toc}

## Jurisdiction identifiers

There is an important difference between the general principles of
citation in any comprehensive style guide, and the rules of citation
for legal materials.  The former describe patterns of citation
to be applied to all materials of a particular type. The patterns
themselves may vary. Consider how a journal article would appear in
a bibliography formatted in three common styles:

* **Chicago (note style)**<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Gilmore, Grant. “Law, Logic and Experience.”
  *Howard Law Journal* 3 (1957): 26–41.

* **APA**<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Gilmore, G. (1957). Law, Logic and Experience. *Howard
  Law Journal*, 3, 26–41.

* **Bluebook**<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Grant Gilmore, Law, Logic and Experience, 3 <span style="font-variant: small-caps;">Howard L.J.</span> 26 (1957).

In contrast, legal citations for a given jurisdiction will be roughly uniform
across all "parent" styles, but there is variation *among
jurisdictions*. For example, consider the following citations to court
judgments, all of which would be correct in any of the three styles above:

* **United States (Supreme
  Court)**<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;International Shoe
  Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310 (1945).

* **United Kingdom (House of
  Lords)**<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Donoghue v. Stevenson, [1932]
  A.C. 562 (HL).

* **Germany (*Bundesgerichtshof*)**<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;BGH IV ZR 241/18.

To cope with the confluence of format-by-style and
format-by-jurisdiction requirements, the "JM" styles in Jurism render
legal items by first calling a jurisdiction-specific style module to
obtain a set of "building-block" citation elements, and then
assembling them with markup and punctuation appropriate to the parent
style.[^1] In broad outline, the workflow looks like this:

[^1]: Final composition in the parent style gives it control over some
      style-specific features, such as the inclusion or stripping of periods,
      italicization of some titles, back-referencing conventions, and
      a few other details.


``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-12-20-1/workflow.png
```

This scheme is made possible by a **Jurisdiction** field set on each
legal item. Jurism uses a machine-readable identifier set in this
field (discussed below) to select a *style module* appropriate to the
item.

>> One critical role of the LRR is to supply these essential jurisdiction identifiers,
>> and a human-readable name for each.


## Court abbreviations

In citations to U.S. law, court abbreviations come in two flavors. One
is the form used to indicate the court when citing to a
multi-jurisdictional reporter. The abbreviated name in this case is an
amalgam that to the educated eye expresses both the court and its
jurisdiction:

* Lafond v. Sweeney, 343 P.3d 939 (<span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">Colo.</span> 2015).
* Begley v. Ireson, 399 P.3d 777 (<span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">Colo. Ct. App.</span> 2017).
* Pielet v. Pielet, 978 N.E.2d 1000 (<span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">Ill.</span> 2012).
* McCarthy v. Pointer, 3 N.E.3d 852 (<span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">Ill. App. Ct.</span> 2014).
* Fallini v. Hodel, 725 F. Supp. 1113 (<span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">D. Nev.</span> 1989).
* In Re Moore, 290 B.R. 287 (<span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">Bankr. E.D.N.C.</span> 2003).
* Edwards v. Ayers, 542 F.3d 759 (<span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">9th Cir.</span> 2008).

The second possible form is that used in a dozen or so
U.S. jurisdictions to indicate the court in a "vendor-neutral"
citation form:

* Lafond v. Sweeney, 2015 <span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">CO</span> 3.
* Begley v. Ireson, 2017 <span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">COA</span> 3.
* Pielet v. Pielet, 2012 <span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">IL</span> 112064.
* McCarthy v. Pointer, 2013 <span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">IL App (1st)</span> 121688.

To generate these various abbreviations, Jurism sets a
machine-readable code in the **Court** field, which is used together
with the jurisdiction code to look up the correct abbreviation for a
given citation.

>> A second critical role of the LRR is to supply a label and a
>> machine-readable identifier for each court type and, for each
>> jurisdiction having a court of that type, to provide up to two
>> abbreviations for it in that context.

## Reporters and abbreviations

To keep citations compact and clear, citation styles call for
abbreviations to be partially or completely suppressed in some
contexts, to avoid repetition. If a reporter is entirely dedicated
to decisions of a particular court, the court abbreviation is
omitted entirely in the parenthetical below:

* Gedra v. Dallmer Co., 153 Ohio St. 258 (1950).

If a reporter covers decisions of multiple courts in a parent
jurisdiction, the court type is indicated, but specific reference to
the parent jurisdiction is omitted:

* Kashian v. Harriman, 120 Cal. Rptr. 2d 576 (Ct. App. 2002).

In one unusual case (Ohio), the core portion of a vendor-neutral
citation form conveys only the state-level jurisdiction. In this case
as well, reference to the parent jurisdiction is omitted:

* Lanzer v. Louisville, 2016-Ohio-8071 (11th Dist.).

Finally, it can happen that certain reporters, because of their
form of publication, require a distinctive citation format.
For example, compare the following two formats for citations
to a decision of the German Federal Administrative Court:

**Ordinary citation**

* BVerwG, NVwZ 1999, 296

|||
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| BVerwG | Court name (*Bundesverwaltungsgericht*)               |
| NVwZ   | Journal name (*Neue Zeitschrift für Verwaltungsrecht* |
| 1999   | Year of report                                        |
| 296    | Page                                                  |


<br/>

**Specially formatted citation**

* BVerwG, Beschl. v. 9.1.1999 – Buchholz 310 § 65 VwGO Nr. 131, S. 2.

|||
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| BVerwG      | Court name (*Bundesverwaltungsgericht*)                                                                |
| Beschl.     | Disposition type (*Beschluss* = judgment)                                                              |
| v. 9.1.1999 | Date of disposition                                                                                    |
| Bucholz     | Reporter name (Buchholz, *und Nachschlagewerk der Rechtsprechung des Bundesverwaltungsgerichts* = Bucholz, "A Reference Work on the Case Law of the Federal Administrative Court") |
| section 310 | Section within the reporter |
| § 65 VwGO       | Paragraph and statute applied (*Verwaltungsgerichtsordnung* = Administrative Code) |
| decision no. 131 | Number of decision within *Bucholz* (not unique) |
| S. 2 | Page |

<br/>

>> The role of the LRR in addressing the requirements described in
>> this section is to provide hints for the full or partial
>> suppression of certain portions court abbreviations, and for
>> application of alternative formatting, depending on the core
>> element of a citation (whether that be a reporter name or a
>> vendor-neutral abbreviation).

## Identifier formats

The structure of Jurism jurisdiction and court identifiers loosely
follows one portion of the draft URN:LEX specification submitted to
the IETF by Spinosa, Francesconi, and Lupo.[^2] An instance of a court
or other body is identified by two elements: a "jurisdiction;" and a
"court." When the two are combined for processing, they are joined with
a semicolon:

* `<jurisdiction identifier>`  **;**  `<court identifier>`

**Jurisdiction identifiers** (more accurately "domain identifiers")
consist of one or more elements, each composed of lowercase roman
letters and periods, joined by a colon delimiter (no other characters
are permitted). An identifier with two or more elements expresses a
nested set of domains, with the leftmost being the largest and the
rightmost the smallest. The relationship between parent and child
domains is otherwise indeterminate. It may be one of procedural
hierarchy …

| ||
| ---: | ----------------- |
| `us` | United States \| US |
| `us:c9` | US \| Ninth Federal Appellate Circuit |
| `us:c9:ca.cd` | US \| Ninth Federal Appellate Circuit \| Central District of California |

… or a child domain may simply be a container of convenience to group
together courts and other entities that are under the parent's
jurisdiction …

| ||
| ---: | ----------------- |
| `us` | United States \| US |
| `us:fed` | US \| Various federal courts and tribunals |

**Court identifiers** represent a court of a particular *type*, such
as "District Court" or "Court of Appeals," which may be associated
with multiple jurisdictions. The identifier is composed of roman
characters and periods. There are no particular rules for composition
of the court identifier, other than that it must be unique to a given
body within a given top-level domain. For example:

| ||
| ---: | ----------------- |
| `sc` | Supreme Court |
| `district.court` | District Court |

Where a court has divisions that are included in citations, the
court identifier can be extended by an additional element separated
by a tilde (`~`):


| ||
| ---: | ----------------- |
| `ecj~chamber.1` | European Court of Justice, First Chamber |
| `cass~civ.1` | Cour de cassassion 1<sup>re</sup> chambre civil |

>> The primary purpose of the LRR is to support the organization and
>> citation of materials. A jurisdiction identifier is not intended as
>> a firm statement about procedure or institutional structure.
>> Extended identifiers for court divisions are included only if
>> relevant to citation requirements.

[^2]: Pier Luigi Spinosa, Enrico Francesconi, and Catarina Lupo, “[A
      Uniform Resource Name (URN) Namespace for Source of Law
      (LEX)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-spinosa-urn-lex/)”
      (IETF, expired work in progress, inactive, December 8, 2018).

## LRR source files

The Legal Resource Registry supports two specific features of a larger
system: the orderly selection of jurisdictions and courts in the
Jurism user interface; and the correct application of abbreviations in
automatically generated citations. The first is readily apparent when
the down-arrow is pressed or text is typed into the **Jurisdiction**
and **Court** fields of the Jurism client:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-12-20-1/screenshot-jurisdiction-court.png
```

The second role of the LRR is to supply court-in-context abbreviations
for legal citations in the various forms illustrated under [Court
abbreviations](#court-abbreviations) above.

#### Filename

Each top-level jurisdiction supported by Jurism is represented by a
single source file, named for the *domain* that it covers. Domains are
either the two-character ISO code of a country, or a string (composed
of roman letters and periods) identifying an international
organization.

* **juris-**`<domain>`**-desc.json**

#### Context

The content of the source file is "exported" to a set of intermediate
source files used to build the Jurism client. As context for the
comments below, please note the following:

- Citations are generated from a set of
  [CSL-M](https://citeproc-js.readthedocs.io/en/latest/csl-m/index.html)
  variables;
- Jurism abbreviates variables depending their *abbreviation category*
   (the table below lists the categories and their respective variables);
- The name of the **Reporter** field in the citation processor is `container-title`;
- The name of the **Court** field in the citation processor is `authority`;
- In the LRR, court abbreviations set with the `abbrev` key are set on the `institution-part` category; and
- Court abbreviations set with the `ABBREVS` key are set on the `institution-entire`
  category.


| Abbreviation category | CSL-M variables or category description |
| -------- | ----------------------- |
| `classic` | abbrevs apply to items of the `classic` type. The value must be set by the user in the Jurism Abbrevs Filter to take effect. |
| `collection﻿-﻿title` | `collection-title` |
| `container﻿-﻿title` | `container-title`, `archive` |
| `hereinafter` | available on any item for which a `hereinafter` form is called by the processor. The value must be set by the user in the Jurism Abbrevs Filter to take effect. |
| `institution﻿-﻿entire` | `publisher`, and institutional creator names (including the `authority` variable) called with the attribute `form="short"` |
| `institution﻿-﻿part` | `publisher`, and institutional creator names (including the `authority` variable) called with the attribute `institution-parts="short"` |
| `nickname` | intended for the narrow use case of replacing a single individual's name with a phrase such as "the author" in citations to correspondence and the like. The value must be set by the user in the Jurism Abbrevs Filter to take effect. |
| `number` | `number`, `call-number`, `chapter-number`, `collection-number`, `edition`, `page`, `issue`, `locator`, `locator-extra`, `number-of-pages`, `number-of-volumes`, `volume`, `citation-number` <p>(For these numeric variables, abbreviation is only enabled—or *should* only be enabled—if the variable content is non-numeric.)</p> |
| `place` | `country`, `place`, `archive-place`, `publisher-place`, `event-place`, `jurisdiction`, `language-name`, `language-name-original` |
| `title` | `title`, `title-short`, `genre`, `event`, `medium` |

#### File content

> **Lines 2, 8 & 32:** There are three top-level keys in an LRR source
> file: `langs`; `courts`: and `jurisdictions`. The `langs` object
> specifies which alternative languages should be included in the
> output of the LRR export script. If the object is empty, only the default
> values will be output.  The full text of this sample can be found in
> [Appendix 1: Sample LRR source
> file](#appendix-1-sample-lrr-source-file).

```json:green
{
    "langs": {
```

> **Lines 3-6:** If alternative languages are to be generated for
> abbreviations (see [Abbreviations](#abbreviations) above) or the
> client UI (see [User Interface Maps](#user-interface-maps) above),
> their ISO language codes are set as keys in the `langs` object, with
> an array specifying the desired output targets.

```json:green-3
        "fr": [
            "ui",
            "abbrevs"
        ]
    },
```

> **Lines 8-31:** The `courts` object sets the identifier codes of
> the courts within this jurisdiction, and their abbreviation
> equivalents.

```json:green-8
    "courts": {
```

> **Lines 9-18:** This entry for the `ca` court illustrates
> the basic syntax of mappings and variants.

```json:green-9
        "ca": {
```

> **Lines 10-12:** Entries have up to three mappings:
> - `name` is the human-readable name of the court, shown in
>   the Jurism user interface.
> - `abbrev` is the abbreviation set for this court in `institution-part`
>   entries of the [abbreviation file(s)](#abbreviations) generated from this source.
>   The `%s` placeholder will be replaced with the name or abbreviation of the
>   jurisdiction(s) associated with this court.
> - `ABBREV` is the identifier set for this court in `institution-entire`
>   entries of the [abbreviations file(s)](#abbreviations) generated from this source,
>   again with a `%s` placeholder for the jurisdiction name or abbreviation.

```json:green-10
            "name": "Court of Appeal",
            "abbrev": "%s Ct. App.",
            "ABBREV": "%sCA"
```

> **Lines 13-17:** Entries can have a `variants` object, with
> keys matching language codes set in `langs` above. Mappings
> set for a variant override the default values for the target
> language domain. In this case, *Cour d'appel* will replace
> the default name *Court of Appeal* when French is set as
> the preferred language of the Jurism user interface.
> Abbreviation output is unaffected by this entry: the default
> values above will be used for both English and French citation
> output.

```json:green-13
			"variants": {
				"fr": {
					"name": "Cour d'appel"
				}
			}
        },
```

> **Lines 19-30:** This entry for the `sc` court illustrates a
> variant override of `abbrev` and `ABBREV` values in addition
> to `name`.

```json:green-19
        "sc": {
            "name": "Supreme Court",
            "abbrev": "Sup. Ct.",
            "ABBREV": "SC",
            "variants": {
                "fr": {
                    "name": "Cour suprême",
                    "abbrev": "Cour sup.",
                    "ABBREV": "CS"
                }
            }
        }
    },
```

> **Line 32-67:** The `jurisdictions` object sets the user-interface names
> and abbreviations for each jurisdiction, and specifies which courts
> are associated with it.

```json:green-32
    "jurisdictions": {
```

> **Lines 33 & 34-41:** Like courts, jurisdictions have a `name`
> value, optionally values for `abbrev` and `ABBREV`, and possibly a
> `variants` object. Note that in the sample below, although Laputa
> has an `ABBREV` value for its courts, there is no value for `ABBREV`
> in this jurisdiction entry. This is normally the case for a
> top-level jurisdiction: the `ABBREV` for top-level court names will
> not ordinarily contain a `%s` placeholder, so there is no need.

```json:green-33
        "zz": {
            "name": "Laputa",
            "abbrev": "Lap.",
            "variants": {
                "fr": {
                    "name": "Láputa",
                    "abbrev": "Láp."
                }
            },
```

> **Lines 42-44:** Courts are associated with a jurisdiction by
> setting the court code as key in the jurisdiction's `courts`
> object. In the simplest (and most common) case, the value set
> on the key is an empty object. This will associate all of the
> values of the `sc` court configured above with this context,
> including its multilingual variants.

```json:green-42
            "courts": {
                "sc": {}
            },
```

> **Lines 45-47:** Abbreviations in the *container-title* category are
> applied to journal names. In an ordinary entry, the mapping is
> simply from the variable content (as key) to the abbreviation (as
> value). The entry at line 20 prepends a formatting statement to
> suppress the `authority` variable, which holds the court name or
> code in data received by the citation processor. Although it will
> rarely, if ever, be required, multiple variables can be suppressed
> by setting them as a comma-delimited list. The syntax of the
> suppression statement is therefore:
> 
> - **!**`<variable>[`**,**`<variable>]`**>>>**
> 
> This statement will suppress the court name (or its abbreviation) in
> any citation to the Laputa Reports journal. This is appropriate if
> Laputa Reports carries only Supreme Court judgments, so …
> 
> - Jones v. Smith, 12 All Lap. 34 (Sup. Ct. 1999).
> 
> … but …
> 
> - Noakes v. Stoakes, 56 Lap. Rep. 78 (2000).
  

```json:green-45
            "container-title": {
                "Laputa Reports": "!authority>>>Lap. Rep."
            }
        },
```

> **Line 49:** The `ca` court set on this child jurisdiction contains
> a `%s` placeholder in its `abbrev` and in its `ABBREV` values, which
> will be replaced with the corresponding values set here on the
> `zz:atl` jurisdiction. This may be overridden—see the note to lines
> 53–61 below.

```json:green-49
        "zz:atl": {
            "name": "Atlantis",
            "abbrev": "Atl.",
            "ABBREV": "ATL",
```

> **Lines 53-61:** This illustrates a pattern that may be
> required to address special language requirements. In this
> case, the adjectival form of the noun "Atlantis" is required,
> so substitution will not suffice. The big-hammer solution
> is to specify the entire value of `abbrev` for the court,
> as we do here for French output only.

```json:green-53
            "courts": {
                "ca": {
					"variants": {
                        "fr": {
                            "abbrev": "Cour d'app. Atlantienne"
                        }
                    }
                }
            },
```

> **Line 63:** This entry illustrates *partial* suppression of a court
> name. The syntax is the same that for full suppression, but with a
> string set off from the variable name with a colon:
> 
> - **!**`<variable>[`**:**`<string>][`**,**`<variable>[`**:**`<string>]]`**>>>**
> 
> The effect of this statement will be to remove "Atl." from the `authority`
> variable when it is rendered in the cite. This is appropriate if Atlantis
> Decisions covers multiple courts within the Atlantis jurisdiction: the
> jurisdiction hint in the abbreviated court name will be removed, and only
> the court name itself, if any, will remain. So …
> 
> - Anderson v. Biggles, 12 All Lap. 34 (Atl. Ct. App. 1999).
> 
> … but …
> 
> - Comstock v. Drub, 56 Atl. Dec. 78 (Ct. App. 2000).

```json:green-62
            "container-title": {
                "Atlantis Decisions": "!authority:Atl.>>>Atl. Dec.",
```

> **Line 64:** A hash mark followed by a number as a formatting
> statement sets the number as the value of a `cite-form` variable
> in the citation processor. The variable can be tested in CSL-M
> style code to apply custom formatting for cites to this
> particular journal.

```json:green-64
                "Poseidon Service": "#1>>>Poseidon Serv."
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## `jurisupdate`: the LRR export script

Source files in the Legal Resource Registry must be exported for
digestion by the Jurism client. The client is distributed with
a ready-to-run set of jurisdiction files bundled in. These can be
modified by fetching a copy of the LRR, editing the LRR source files,
and running the LRR export script. This section explains how to do that.

### Setting up

The first step in setting up is to fork the LRR project to your own GitHub account, by visiting [the LRR project page](https://github.com/Juris-M/legal-resource-registry) and clicking on the **Fork** button:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-12-20-1/fork-button.png
```

After forking the project, fetch your project address from your own project page to the clipboard:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
width: 50%
src: ./2020-12-20-1/get-address.png
```

Use `git` with the project address to clone the project to a location of your choice:

```bash
    shell> git clone https://github.com/XXXXXXX/legal-resource-registry.git
```

Set the original “upstream” LRR project as a remote partner to your clone. (This makes is possible to keep your clone current with any upstream changes):

```bash
    shell> git remote add upstream https://github.com/Juris-M/legal-resource-registry.git
```

For good measure, issue the command to pull in upstream changes. You should issue this command each time you begin work in the clone, to be sure the upstream project has not changed in the meantime:

```bash
    shell> git pull upstream master
```

Enter the `scripts` subdirectory of the project folder, install dependencies, and link the maintenance script (`jurisupdate`) to your command environment:

```bash
    shell> cd legal-resource-registry/scripts
    shell> npm install
    shell> npm link
```

At this point, running the `jurisupdate` command should yield the following error:

```bash
    shell> jurisupdate
    ERROR: path.jurisSrcDir is undefined in /PATH/TO/HOME/DIRECTORY/.jurisUpdate
```

The final step in setup is to set several path names in the `.jurisUpdate` configuration
file shown in the error message, using a text editor. The file content will initially look
like this, with `null` values for the paths:

```javascript
{
  "path": {
    "jurisSrcDir": null,
    "jurisMapDir": null,
    "jurisAbbrevsDir": null
  }
}
```

The paths should be set as follows:

> **jurisSrcDir**
> * Set `jurisSrcDir` to the path of the `src` subdirectory of your cloned copy
>   of the LRR.

> **jurisMapDir** and **jurisAbbrevsDir**
> * Set these paths to the directories to which Jurism map and
>   abbreviation files should be written by the `jurisupdate`
>   export script. In most cases, these will be the `juris-maps` and
>   `juris-abbrevs` subdirectories of the Jurism data directory, which
>   you can confirm in the client via **Preferences** → **Advanced** →
>   **Files & Folders**. (Developers building the Jurism client code
>   from scratch may wish to set these to the respective directories
>   of the client source.)

With these adjustments in place, the `jurisupdate` command should return the following
error message:

```bash
    shell> jurisupdate
    ERROR: One of -a or -j is required.
```

If that all checks out, setup is complete and you’re ready to go.

### Commands

Running the `jurisupdate` command with the `-h` option will show its help text:

```bash
    shell> jurisupdate -h
    Usage: index.js <options>
        -a, --all
           Perform requested operation on all jurisdictions.
        -j <jurisdictionID>, --jurisdiction=<jurisdictionID>
           Perform requested operation on the specified jurisdiction.
        -c, --convert
           Convert from old descriptive format to new descriptive format
        -l, --list
           List codes for all international organizations and countries [with their languages]
        -F --force
           Force overwrite of same data for descriptive-to-compact.
```

To make changes to the Jurism identifier system, you will edit source files in the LRR,
and run the following command to make your changes available when the Jurism client is
(re)started:

```bash
    shell> jurisupdate -a
```

Alternatively, you can limit an update to a particular jurisdiction by setting its code with the `-j` option:

```bash
    shell> jurisupdate -j vn
```

### Coordination

If you do edit the LRR for local use, be sure to submit your changes
to the main project, so they can be folded into a future
release. First commit the changes to your LRR fork:

```bash
    shell> git commit -m "Changes to abbreviations for ZZ (Laputa)" -a
    shell> git push
```

Then file a pull request against your fork on GitHub:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-12-20-1/pull-request.png
```


## Jurism output files and formats

The primary purpose of the Legal Resource Registry is to support the
storage and citation of legal materials in the Jurism reference
manager: it is part of that program's source code. National
jurisdictions and international organizations covered by the system
are each represented by a single source file containing its
identifiers and abbreviations, in a format that lends itself to manual
editing. The LRR source files are then "exported" to produce two
intermediate source files, which are used in the actual Jurism build:
auto-abbreviation files; and user interface maps. The format of these
two targets is documented in this section.

### Abbreviations

#### Filename

The LRR export script sets abbreviations for use in generating citations in
files named according to the following template:

* **auto-**`<domain>[`**-**`<variant>`**`]`.json**

* The *domain* is a two-character ISO country code (i.e. `us`, `jp`,
  etc.), or an ad hoc identifier for an international body
  (i.e. `eu.int`, `un.int`, `coe.int`).
* The optional *variant* element is an arbitrary name, which can
  be used to call the variant from a CSL style.
* Each supported jurisdiction *must* have a bare abbreviation file
  with no variant name. Multiple variants of a given jurisdiction
  are permitted.

#### File content


The file content itself is in JSON format. The annotated sample file
below, shows the English-version output of the LRR source file
annotated in [LRR source files](#lrr-source-files) above. For the
French-version output, see [Appendix 2: Sample abbreviation
file](#appendix-2-sample-abbreviation-file) below.

There is quite a lot to digest here, and we will take it by
numbers.

> **Lines 2-4:** Three fields declare the `filename`, the `name` of the
> jurisdiction, and the `version` expressed as an ISO timestamp.[^3]

```json:yellow
{
    "filename": "auto-zz.json",
    "name": "Atlantis",
    "version": "2019-08-19 12:16:29 UTC",
```

> **Lines 5-35:** The Jurism abbreviation data is contained in the `xdata`
> object.

```json:yellow-5
    "xdata": {
```

> **Line 6:** Each legal item in Jurism is assigned a `jurisdiction`
> value. Abbreviations are defined in the context of a specific
> jurisdiction, and the processor searches for a match within the item
> jurisdiction or, failing that, in each successive parent
> jurisdiction until a match is found. The ultimate fallback is the
> `default` "jurisdiction" (which is also tried for a match if the item
> has no jurisdiction value at all).

```json:yellow-6
        "default": {
```

> **Lines 7-10:** Jurisdiction keys are uppercased in the `place` object,
> mapped to the name or abbreviation of the jurisdiction.

```json:yellow-7
            "place": {
                "ZZ": "Lap.",
                "ZZ:ATL": "Atl."
            }
        },
```



> **Lines 12-22:** The `zz` key is the top-level jurisdiction code
> of Laputa. All other jurisdiction keys in this file (apart
> from `default` above) are children of this domain.

```json:yellow-12
        "zz": {
```

> **Lines 13-15 & 16-18:** The citation processor can abbreviate
> an institution (such as a court) in two separate ways:
> 
> - `institution-part` provides the *descriptive* abbreviation of
>   courts in their jurisdictional context. Examples in US legal
>   citation practice would be "S.D.N.Y" (for the Federal District
>   Court for the Southern District of New York) and "Bankr. D. Mass."
>   (for the Bankruptcy Court in the Federal District of
>   Massachussetts).
> 
> - `institution-entire` provides a code identifying the court, for
>   the vendor-neutral citation forms used in some jurisdictions.
>   Examples in US citation practice would be "CO" (for the Colorado
>   Supreme Court) and "COA" (for the Colorado Court of Appeals).

```json:yellow-13
            "institution-part": {
                "sc": "Sup. Ct."
            },
            "institution-entire": {
                "sc": "SC"
            },
```

> **Lines 19-21:** The `container-title` object set on this
> jurisdiction in the LRR is passed through verbatim in the
> exported abbreviation file.

```json:yellow-19
            "container-title": {
                "Laputa Reports": "!authority>>>Lap. Rep."
            }
        },
```

> **Lines 23-33:** The key `zz:atl` is a subjurisdiction of `zz`.
> The `institution-part` and `institution-entire` abbreviation sets
> have the roles described above.

```json:yellow-23
        "zz:atl": {
            "institution-part": {
                "ca": "Atl. Ct. App."
            },
            "institution-entire": {
                "ca": "ALTCA"
            },
```


> **Lines 30-33:** Again, `container-title` objects set on a
> jurisdiction in the LRR are passed through verbatim in this
> exported abbreviation file.

```json:yellow-30
            "container-title": {
                "Atlantis Decisions": "!authority:Atl.>>>Atl. Dec.",
                "Poseidon Service": "#1>>>Poseidon Serv."
            }
        }
    }
}
```


>> In the Jurism client, the abbreviation source files are used to
>> populate a database in the Abbrevs Filter plugin with abbreviations
>> appropriate to a particular style.  The database format, the
>> Abbrevs Filter, and its interface to the citation processor are
>> beyond the scope of this overview.


[^3]: For performance reasons, the LRR export script also sets the timestamp
      in a separate `DIRECTORY_LISTING.json` file in the abbreviations
      source directory.

### User Interface Maps

#### Filename

Jurisdiction and court codes are not exposed directly in the Jurism
user interface: a human-readable equivalent is displayed instead.  In
the Jurism source code, the data to produce maps for converting
between the two are stored in files named for the domain to which
each applies:

* **juris-**`<domain>`**-map.json**

A sample of such a file, illustrating a jurisdiction with multiple
languages, is shown below. The file format is quite compact to
minimize the bulk of data shipped with the Jurism client. There is
again a lot to unpack, and we will once more take it by line numbers.
The full text of this sample can be found in [Appendix 3:
Sample user interface map file](#appendix-3-sample-user-interface-map-file).

#### File content

> **Lines 2 & 20:** There are two keys in a Jurism UI map file,
> the first of which is `courts`.

```json:yellow
{
    "courts": [
```

> **Lines 3-18:** Each entry in the `courts` array is an array of two
> values: a court code; and the human-readable name of the court.
> Code/name pairs are set here for every court type (two in this case)
> and every language (again two in this case) that are configured for
> the jurisdiction covered by the file.

```json:yellow-3
        [
            "ca",
            "Court of Appeal"
        ],
        [
            "ca",
            "Cour d'appel"
        ],
        [
            "sc",
            "Supreme Court"
        ],
        [
            "sc",
            "Cour suprême"
        ]
    ],
```

> **Line 20:** The second top-level key in a Jurism UI map file is `jurisdictions`,
> the companion to the `courts` object above.

```json:yellow-20
    "jurisdictions": {
```

> **Lines 21-34 & 35-48:** The value of the `jurisdictions` key is an object
> with at least one `default` key, and optionally keys for additional
> languages. This file provides one additional language (`fr`, the ISO
> code for French) as an alternative to the default.

```json:yellow-21
        "default": [
```

> **Lines 22-27:** Each entry in the `default` array and its alternate-language
> siblings is an array with three or more elements:
> - The machine-readable element for the entry's jurisdiction
> - The human-readable name of the entry's jurisdiction;
> - The index of this entry's parent, or null if there is no parent; and
> - Any remaining arguments are zero-origin indices of the `courts` array,
>   specifying which courts are associated with this specific jurisdiction.
>
> The root entry is always placed in first position, with a third-position
> value of `null`.

```json:yellow-22
            [
                "zz",
                "Laputa",
                null,
                2
            ],
```

> **Lines 28-33:** Child jurisdictions always have an integer value
> in third position. This `atl` jurisdiction is an immediate child of
> the root jurisdiction `zz`, and so has a third-position value of `0`.
> The Jurism jurisdiction code generated from this entry will be
> `zz:atl`.

```json:yellow-28
            [
                "atl",
                "Atlantis",
                0,
                0
            ]
        ],
```

> **Lines 35-48:** The `fr` object in this sample follows the
> same pattern as the `default` object described above, except
> for setting the trailing `court` indices to the French versions
> of court names.

```json:yellow-35
        "fr": [
            [
                "zz",
                "Láputa",
                null,
                3
            ],
            [
                "atl",
                "Atlantis",
                0,
                1
            ]
        ]
    }
}
```

>> Jurism user interface maps are source code for building a database
>> to drive pulldown menus in the **Jurisdiction** and **Court**
>> fields. The map files described here are automatically generated by
>> the LRR export script, and should not be edited directly.


## Appendix 1: Sample LRR source file

```json:green
{
    "langs": {
        "fr": [
            "ui",
            "abbrevs"
        ]
    },
    "courts": {
        "ca": {
            "name": "Court of Appeal",
            "abbrev": "%s Ct. App.",
            "ABBREV": "%sCA",
			"variants": {
				"fr": {
					"name": "Cour d'appel"
				}
			}
        },
        "sc": {
            "name": "Supreme Court",
            "abbrev": "Sup. Ct.",
            "ABBREV": "SC",
            "variants": {
                "fr": {
                    "name": "Cour suprême",
                    "abbrev": "Cour sup.",
                    "ABBREV": "CS"
                }
            }
        }
    },
    "jurisdictions": {
        "zz": {
            "name": "Laputa",
            "abbrev": "Lap.",
            "variants": {
                "fr": {
                    "name": "Láputa",
                    "abbrev": "Láp."
                }
            },
            "courts": {
                "sc": {}
            },
            "container-title": {
                "Laputa Reports": "!authority>>>Lap. Rep."
            }
        },
        "zz:atl": {
            "name": "Atlantis",
            "abbrev": "Atl.",
            "ABBREV": "ATL",
            "courts": {
                "ca": {
					"variants": {
                        "fr": {
                            "abbrev": "Cour d'app. Atlantienne"
                        }
                    }
                }
            },
            "container-title": {
                "Atlantis Decisions": "!authority:Atl.>>>Atl. Dec.",
                "Poseidon Service": "#1>>>Poseidon Serv."
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## Appendix 2: Sample abbreviation file

### Default

```json:yellow
{
  "filename": "auto-zz.json",
  "name": "Laputa",
  "version": "2021-01-16 08:00:47 UTC",
  "xdata": {
    "default": {
      "place": {
        "ZZ": "Lap.",
        "ZZ:ATL": "Atl."
      }
    },
    "zz": {
      "institution-part": {
        "sc": "Sup. Ct."
      },
      "institution-entire": {
        "sc": "SC"
      },
      "container-title": {
        "Laputa Reports": "!authority>>>Lap. Rep."
      }
    },
    "zz:atl": {
      "institution-part": {
        "ca": "Atl. Ct. App."
      },
      "institution-entire": {
        "ca": "ATLCA"
      },
      "container-title": {
        "Atlantis Decisions": "!authority:Atl.>>>Atl. Dec.",
        "Poseidon Service": "#1>>>Poseidon Serv."
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### French

```json:yellow
{
  "filename": "auto-zz-fr.json",
  "name": "Laputa",
  "version": "2021-01-16 08:00:47 UTC",
  "xdata": {
    "default": {
      "place": {
        "ZZ": "Láp.",
        "ZZ:ATL": "Atl."
      }
    },
    "zz": {
      "institution-part": {
        "sc": "Cour sup."
      },
      "institution-entire": {
        "sc": "CS"
      },
      "container-title": {
        "Laputa Reports": "!authority>>>Lap. Rep."
      }
    },
    "zz:atl": {
      "institution-part": {
        "ca": "Cour d'app. Atlantienne"
      },
      "institution-entire": {
        "ca": "ATLCA"
      },
      "container-title": {
        "Atlantis Decisions": "!authority:Atl.>>>Atl. Dec.",
        "Poseidon Service": "#1>>>Poseidon Serv."
      }
    }
  }
}
```


## Appendix 3: Sample user interface map file

```json:yellow
{
    "courts": [
        [
            "ca",
            "Court of Appeal"
        ],
        [
            "ca",
            "Cour d'appel"
        ],
        [
            "sc",
            "Supreme Court"
        ],
        [
            "sc",
            "Cour suprême"
        ]
    ],
    "jurisdictions": {
        "default": [
            [
                "zz",
                "Laputa",
                null,
                2
            ],
            [
                "atl",
                "Atlantis",
                0,
                0
            ]
        ],
        "fr": [
            [
                "zz",
                "Láputa",
                null,
                3
            ],
            [
                "atl",
                "Atlantis",
                0,
                1
            ]
        ]
    }
}
```
