pageTitle: Website Housecleaning
author: Frank Bennett

Today marks the debut of a fresh version of the Jurism project site,
which aims to be lighter, simpler, and generally more modern-looking
than its predecessor. The previous version rolled out five years ago,
and as the first shot at a portal drafted in a busy season, not much
attention went into its appearance. The new site leverages
professional work done for a more complex faculty site that has since
been decomissioned. I was fond of the design, and I hope that the
remix here will be received as an improvement.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ../assets/images/jurism-old-site.png
style: "border:2px solid #ccc;padding:0.5rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

Publication of the new site design is accompanied by release of a new
beta version of the Jurism client that includes a much-improved
IndigoBook style. The new style is a major step forward in legal
referencing support for lawyers, academics, and journalists. There are
several interesting layers to the Jurism approach to legal reference
management, and I will be posting further notes on the details to
this space in due course.

Note that the new site abandons a validating editor for legal style
modules that provided impressive but less flexible support for style
authoring than the
[citeproc-test-runner](https://www.npmjs.com/package/citeproc-test-runner)
that became available last year. The editor contained an integrated manual
on drafting legal style modules, which will be updated and added here
as time permits.

> Frank Bennett, at Nisshin, Aichi-ken, Japan, 29 June 2020
