pageTitle: Notes on jurisdiction bugfixes etc.
author: Frank Bennett

**(from the Jurism mailing lists)**

Notes on a recent update to Jurism (5.0.93m14), which brings some
further changes that will be of particular interest to legal
users. Recent clients should update automatically. Manual update of
versions at 5.0.66 or older is strongly recommended.

## Jurisdiction validity highlight

The Jurisdiction field displays a human-readable value, such as
`Germany|DE` or `DE|Bremen`. In ordinary use, these values are stored
under the hood as machine-readable codes (for these examples, "de" and
"de:bremen"), and the machine-readable code is used to produce correct
jurisdiction and court abbreviations. Under some (unusual) conditions,
a jurisdiction name (i.e. a non-code value) can be stored in the
Jurism database, and this can cause abbreviations to fail, resulting
in incorrect citations.

Previous versions of Jurism did not mark such "invalid" jurisdiction
entries in any way, which could lead to frustration. From the
5.0.93m14 release, **Jurisdiction** fields with an invalid underlying
value will be highlighted in yellow, to make them easier to identify
and correct. (Reentry of jurisdiction values has also been made less
cumbersome—see the following note).

## Jurisdiction data entry

In ordinary use, the content of the jurisdiction field is set from a
controlled list that sets the correct underlying machine-readable
value to match the jurisdiction name displayed in the field. The
controlled list is accessed by opening the field for editing, and
either typing a portion of the jurisdiction name, or pressing the
down-arrow key. The desired jurisdiction can then be selected from the
list. In previous versions of Jurism, the target jurisdiction could
only be selected by clicking on it with the mouse, which could lead to
frustration. From the 5.0.93m14 release, values can be selected from
the drop-down list by navigating with the arrow keys and hitting
enter. (It is not longer necessary to use the mouse.)

## Document integration crash on certain jurisdiction/court inputs

It was previously possible to crash the citation processor or (worse)
throw it into an endless loop, in one of two ways:

* Attempting to render certain citations with an invalid Jurisdiction
  value (described above); or
* Attempting to render certain citations with an empty Court field.

Both of these bugs have been addressed. In such cases the citation
produced will be incorrect, of course, but the system will not crash,
and correcting the item in Jurism will fix the citation.

## Translator updates

The improvements to citation translators mentioned in "Jurism dev
notes #11" very likely did not feed through to your Jurism
client. This was due to outdated timestamp records, which have now
been fixed. The improved translators should appear with the 5.0.93m14
update, and Jurism should produce clean attachments from the
CourtListener, Google Scholar, and Cornell LII US Code sites. (Note
that the Google Scholar translator will work best for grabs from
individual case views - grabs from a search listing are known to do a
poor job of pulling citation data from GS cases).


That's it for today. We are taking the stresses of this interval one
day at a time here in Nagoya, and we hope that you are able to do the
same. There is a burden in the waiting, but better times will come.

<div style="white-space:pre-line;">
Frank Bennett
2020-12-14
Nagoya
</div>
