pageTitle: Parallel cites in Jurism: the user side
author: Frank Bennett

"Parallel" citations are common in the law. Court judgments are
important everywhere, as they provide the most precise indicator of
how courts (are likely to) apply the law to particular sets of facts;
and as such, they receive an inordinate amount of attention. This in
turn often leads to "combined" or "parallel" citation patterns that
provide the reader with more context than a single reference would
do. These patterns vary among legal systems, but there appear to be
three types overall: truly parallel cites to multiple reports of the
same case; procedural histories; and citation of commentaries that
interpret a given judgment. In the wild, they look something like
this:

> Multiple reports
> : <span style="border-bottom: 4px dotted blue;">*Harden v. Playboy Enterprises, Inc.*, 261 Ill. App. 3d 443</span>, <span style="border-bottom: 3px solid orange;">633 N.E.2d 764 (1993)</span>.
> 
> Procedural histories
> : <span style="border-bottom: 3px solid orange;">*Energy & Env’t Legal Inst. v. Epel*, 43 F. Supp. 3d 1171 (D. Colo. 2014)</span>, <span style="border-bottom: 4px blue dotted;">*aff’d*, 793 F.3d 1169 (10th Cir.)</span>, <span style="border-bottom: 3px solid orange;">*cert. denied*, 136 S. Ct. 595 (2015)</span>.
> 
> Related commentaries
> : <span style="border-bottom: 4px dotted blue;">Cass. 1ere civ., March 28, 2000, <i>JCP G</i>, 2000, 10296, <span
    class="small-caps">J. Sainte-Rose</span></span>; <span style="border-bottom: 3px solid orange;"><i>D</i>, 2000,
    somm. p. 358, <span class="small-caps">Ph. Delebecque</span></span>,
    <span style="border-bottom: 4px dotted blue;">p. 900, <span class="small-caps">S. Piedelievre</span></span>.

As the underlining in the above examples illustrates, each of these
citations is built from multiple items. The first is an amalgam of two
references to the same Illinois case, in separate reporters. The
second is a series of three separate cites to a US Federal trial
judgment, and the result of two appeals. The third is a single cite to
a French case, followed by two commentaries published in the same
journal.

In each of the three examples, the series is made more compact and
readable by omitting redundant information—for instance, in the first
example, the case name and the year of the judgment are given only
once, and the court (the Illinois Court of Appeals) is not stated in
the final parenthetical, because it is implicit in the first-listed
reporter (Ill. App. 3d).

The rules for collapsing cites into a compact series are not specified
anywhere, but roughly speaking they are that:

- leading elements should appear only on the first cite, unless their
  content differs from their predecessor;

- trailing elements should appear only on the last cite unless their
  successor value differs; and

- if a trailing value (such as a court name) is implicit from any
  cite content that gets printed, it should be omitted as well.

Jurism applies these rules automatically. Citation
"collapsing" occurs when a Jurism citation (a) contains cites to **multiple
items**, and (b) the cites are **related**. With those two tweaks
in place, it should Just Work.[^1]

[^1]: If you follow the steps explained here, and a citation series
      does not collapse correctly, the best way to report the fault
      is via the [Jurism-enhanced Indigo Book](https://juris-m.github.io/indigobook/).
      Click on the **Propose Cite Example** button, log in with a (free) GitHub
      account, enter the citation as it should appear, add an explanatory
      comment on your example, and click **Save**. We can take it from there.

Related items
: Item relations are set in Jurism itself (not in the document). In addition to providing
  a hint for the formatting of citations, this provides a permanent record of the connections
  among resources as a references in future projects. To set a relation, select an item
  in the center panel, and click on its **Related** tab. Clicking on the **Add** button
  will open the relations popup. Use search or navigation to select the items to be
  related to this one, and click **OK**.

  ``` yaml
  type: embedWideImage
  src: ../assets/images/select-related.png
  style: "border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.2rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;"
  ```

The related items will appear under the **Related** tab. Clicking one will navigate to
the target item.

  ``` yaml
  type: embedWideImage
  src: ../assets/images/selected-related.png
  style: "border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.2rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;"
  ```

Relations only need to be set once, they are a permanent record, and
will sync to other machines or accounts via ``jurism.org``. Citing the items together
in a multiple citation will create a parallel citation automatically.



Selecting an Indigo Book style
: Parallel citation collapsing works with all of the "JM" styles in Jurism,
  but in this example we will select the **JM Indigo Book (law reviews)** style
  in our document.

  ``` yaml
  type: embedWideImage
  src: ../assets/images/select-style.png
  style: "border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.2rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;"
  ```

Multiple items in a citation
: There are two alternatives for inserting citations into a document. The default is
  the "ribbon" popup, shown below. To insert multiple citations, simply search again
  and select another. Here we chose the three items making up the "Epel" example above.
  
  ``` yaml
  type: embedWideImage
  src: ../assets/images/multiples-by-ribbon.png
  style: "border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.2rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;"
  ```

  The other option is the "Classic" dialog, accessible by clicking on the Jurism icon
  to the left of the ribbon insert box. The Classic dialog allows navigation within
  the library in addition to search:[^2]
  
  ``` yaml
  type: embedWideImage
  src: ../assets/images/multiples-by-classic.png
  style: "border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.2rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;"
  ```

Signal prefixes
: The "Epel" example is a procedural history, which requires signals to indicate the
  significance of each subsequent case in the series. These are not added automatically,
  so we need to add them by hand, with appropriate formatting markup. Below, we add the
  "*aff’d*" signal, italicized with its trailing comma:
  
  ``` yaml
  type: embedWideImage
  src: ../assets/images/affix-edit.png
  style: "border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.2rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;"
  ```

... and that's it. Our footnote citation is inserted with the appropriate elements suppressed, and
will update correctly for context as we proceed to edit the document:

  ``` yaml
  type: embedWideImage
  src: ../assets/images/procedural-history-rendered.png
  style: "border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.2rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;"
  ```




[^2]: To open the view shown below, click on the **Multiple sources**
      button that shows in the lower-left corner of the popup when it opens.
