pageTitle: Notes on legal-support updates
author: Frank Bennett

**(from the Jurism mailing lists)**

A brief note here on some items relating to Jurism support for legal materials. The notes below apply to the 5.0.93m12 release, the last in a short series of releases over the past week.

## Style updates

In theory, Jurism styles should now be updating automatically to their latest version. However, if you need to be sure that you have the latest, styles can now be installed by running the Jurism client and visiting https://juris-m.github.io/styles. One click should install or update the style of your choice.

## Indigo Book Law Review style bug
Madeleine Plasencia reported a show-stopping error with parallel references in the Indigo Book Law Review style. This was traced to a processor bug, which is now fixed.

## Attachments for three legal translators
Back in the day (two years ago?), certain Jurism site translators were able to clip elements out of a web page, saving a content-only snapshot stripped of navigation etc. This stopped working when Zotero (for good reasons) made some changes to the way attachments are saved. The main sites affected by this were CourtListener, the Cornell LII US Code, and Google Scholar for cases, all of which have since been able to save, at best, a full snapshot of the web page displaying a case or statute.

Some recent changes in Zotero have made it possible to restore the clipping feature to Jurism translators, and the three sites listed above will now save content-only snapshots. To take advantage of the new translators, you will need to upgrade to or install the latest Jurism browser connector (version 5.0.93.4) for Firefox or Chrome.

## Myles plugin gotcha
Jurism does a pretty good job on parallel references, as detailed in the Jurism blog (https://juris-m.github.io/posts/2020-07-05-0.html). The magic is written into the style modules for individual jurisdictions. Back in the day (two years ago?) the modules were supplied by a plugin called "Myles." The modules and the Myles plugin logic have since been integrated into Jurism itself, but the new magic will be bypassed (and break things) if the Myles plugin is installed on your system.

If you are a long-standing user, it's worth checking in Jurism under Tools→Add-ons to see you have the Myles plugin installed. If it's in there, you should disable or remove it.

## Cites to the Court of Justice of the European Union
Michael Veale reported corruption of citations to the CJEU. This was due to module specific to this court that was accidentally dropped from the project by yours truly. The module has been restored, and cites to this court should now render correctly once again.

That's all the news for today. Be careful out there, and feel free to post a note to the list if you hit any problems with Jurism and its friends.

Frank Bennett
2020-12-08
Nagoya

