pageTitle: Indigo Book + Jurism Integration
author: Frank Bennett

> This post is a lightly edited version of a session proposal
> initially submitted to this year’s “CALIcon 2020,” the conference of
> the Center for Computer-Assisted Legal Instruction. When the current
> emergency intervened, the theme of the conference was reset to [Law
> School in the Time of Pandemic](http://2020.calicon.org), for which
> the staid theme of office automation was a less than perfect fit.

As the season for release of a fresh edition of *The Bluebook* draws
near, thoughts will again turn to the burden of referencing US legal
resources, and pens to the ritual of bemoaning the growing bulk and
complexity of the country’s leading citation manual. This post
concerns an effort to break this unfortunate cycle in the rhetorical
weather system by deploying a new approach to the management of
the nation’s citation rules.

The effort involves the integration of two community initiatives. The
*Indigo Book* is an open-access guide to legal citation.  *Jurism* is
a variant of the open-source Zotero reference manager, extended to
handle legal materials. The two projects share a relation to *The
Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation*. *Indigo Book* is a
public-domain statement of the Bluebook rules, distributed free to the
Internet. Jurism is an open-source reference manager with the capacity
to generate accurate citations for multiple jurisdictions. The premise
of both is that citation rules can and should be made more accessible
and easier to follow.

While The Bluebook has been the target of considerable criticism over
the years for its complexity, and for zealous protection of its
commercial interest in a public standard. prominent challengers—most
notably the ALWD Citation Manual, and Chicago's Maroonbook—have (like
the *Indigo Book*) opted in the end to closely follow *The Bluebook*’s
rules. As Christine Hurt observed in 2002, this is the expected
outcome of network effects. Simply stated, standardizing citation
rules makes sense, the market abhors divergence, and all other things
being equal, this offers an advantage to the first mover.[^1]

[^1]: Christine Hurt, *Network Effects and Legal Citation: How
      Antitrust Theory Predicts Who Will Build a Better Bluebook
      Mousetrap in the Age of Electronic Mice*, 87 <span class="small-caps">Iowa L.  Rev.</span> 1257
      (2002).

Yet the complaints from authors bound by Bluebook rules persist, on
two fronts: the complexity of the rules themselves; and the need to
trawl through an ever-expanding volume of text to master each
iteration of the style guide.[^2]

[^2]: *Compare* <span class="small-caps">Columbia Law Review
      Ass’n</span> et al., <span class="small-caps">The Bluebook: A
      Uniform System of Citation</span> (19th ed. 2010) (weighing in
      at 511 pages) *with* <span class="small-caps">Columbia Law
      Review Ass’n</span> et al., <span class="small-caps">The
      Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation</span> (20th ed. 2015)
      (extending to 560 pages).


These two issues are separable. The complexity of the style reflects
that of the underlying material, and that is a product of the US
federal system itself, beyond editorial control. The burden of
trawling through text in search of guidance, however, is another
matter, and connects directly to the topic of this post.

Technology has an answer to complex citation requirements. The basic
idea, implemented in the venerable PASCAL language circa 1985,[^3] and on
a venerable PDP-11 in 1990,[^4] is to store item details in a database of
some sort (a “library”), and to use those details to generate
citations automatically.  This is “reference management,” and tools
for this purpose have been in common use in most fields of research
for decades. Using a reference manager, an author writes their
article, sets the style, and outputs their manuscript.  That's it. In
a well-supported field, the detailed arcana of citation guidelines are
of interest primarily to copy editors, obsessive citation geeks, and
people who maintain reference management software.

[^3]: *See* *BibTeX*, <span class="small-caps">Wikipedia</span>
      (2019), https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=
      BibTeX&oldid=926358916.f; *see also* Leslie Lamport, <span
      class="small-caps">LaTeX: A Document Preparation System</span>
      (1986); Oren Patashnik, BibTeXing (Feb. 8, 1988),
      http://mirrors.ctan.org/ biblio/bibtex/base/btxdoc.pdf; Oren
      Patashnik, Designing BibTeX Styles (Feb. 8, 1988),
      http://mirrors.ctan.org/biblio/bibtex/contrib/doc/btxhak.pdf .

[^4]: *Oral History of Ernest Beutler*, <span class="small-caps">Legends in Hematology</span>
      (American Society of Hematology Nov. 6, 1990),
      https://www.hematology.org/About/History/Legends/1616.aspx .

Despite the reference-intensive nature of our discipline,[^5] lawyers
have not yet experienced this generational wave in research support
tools, largely because legal resources have a different kind of
complexity. Research in other fields draws heavily on a limited number
of resource types (books, articles, etc.), which have uniform metadata
(title, volume, journal, etc.) that is expressed in a bewildering
variety of citation styles.[^6] In contrast, legal researchers are
blessed with a single dominant style, but that style addresses an
uneven eld of resources, some subject to sporadic revision (statutes
and regulations), and many bound by idiosyncratic citation conventions
(such as vendor-neutral cases, bills, resolutions, codified versus
uncodified legislation, and vendor-bound legislative services).[^7]
These are very different challenges, and tools developed for other
communities are not immediately adaptable to the needs of the law. In
the words of the lead developer of Zotero:

> > There's a huge amount of necessary complexity in the … legal
> > functionality, and developing it requires a high level of
> > specialized knowledge that we (and most developers we would want to
> > hire) simply don't have.[^8]

[^5]: *See* Fred R. Shapiro, *Origins of Bibliometrics, Citation
      Indexing, and Citation Analysis: The Neglected Legal
      Literature*, 43 J. <span
      class="small-caps">Am. Soc. Info. Sci.</span> 337 (1992).

[^6]: A leading repository contains over 2,000 unique
      stylesheets. Official repository for Citation Style Language
      (CSL) citation styles (Feb. 22, 2020), https://github.com/
      citation-style-language/styles.

[^7]: For a cram course on the some of the complexities involved, see
      Thomas Bruce, Making Metasausage, (Cornell Legal Information
      Instittue, May 7, 2012–Aug. 25, 2014),
      https://blog.law.cornell.edu/metasausage/.

[^8]: Comment by Dan Stillman (dstillman), <span class="small-caps">Zotero Forums</span>, (July 19,
      2018),
      https://forums.zotero.org/discussion/comment/313006#Comment_313006

The point being that, as Zotero is a tool for general use, a merger of
Jurism functionality into Zotero is out of scope for their own project.
In sum, bringing reference management to the law is a task for the legal
community to spearhead—and today we can get there in a few short steps.[^9]

[^9]: By extending Zotero's legal item types, adding a full set of
      identiers for US courts and jurisdictions, and implementing
      per-jurisdiction citation stylesheets.

As the *Indigo Book* and Jurism exemplify, open resources can be built: the
more serious challenge is in their maintenance. This is where a union of the
two projects comes into its own.

Updating a citation system with the size and complexity of the *Indigo Book*
or *The Bluebook* faces a problem of scalability. The volume of interrelated
detail is considerable, and no editor can have close familiarity with
developments in every corner of the US national system at all
levels. To keep costs manageable, any such project is reliant to some
degree on crowd-sourcing. In the case of *The Bluebook*, this entails
offering prizes for participation in an online survey in the lead-up
to a new edition.[^10] This works, but it is rather cumbersome, largely
opaque, and operates only at five-year intervals.

[^10]: In 2013, survey takers were offered the exciting possibility of
       winning a Kindle Paperwhite e-reader or a free paper copy of
       the 20th edition and a two-year subscription to the Bluebook
       Online website. *See* Emily Lawson, *The Bluebook needs you!*,
       <span class="small-caps">UHLC Nota Bene</span> (Oct. 16, 2013),
       https://notabeneuh.blogspot.com/2013/10/the-bluebook-needs-you.html.

There is a better approach to be had, both for editors charged with
coordinating maintenance of this daunting style, and for the authors
that it serves. Improving on the status quo turns on applying more
modern tools to the task.

-------------------------

> The work described below and illustrated in [Appendix: Editorial
> Workflow](#appendix-editorial-workflow) <span
> style="font-style:normal;">has been done</span>. As of this
> writing, its components can be trialed in the Jurism project copy
> of the *Indigo Book* and the beta version of the Jurism client.)

**Indigo Book text** The *Indigo Book* is licensed CC0, which allows
us to make changes to the text for development purposes. The Jurism
project copy has been modified in its HTML code to enable the dynamic
features described below.

**Jurism Library** The *Indigo Book* contains a large number of
citation examples (approximately 800 of them). The details of each
resource represented in the examples (title, journal name, volume,
etc.) is entered into a Jurism library. The library is then synced to
the ``zotero.org`` cloud storage service and made available as a
[public library](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2319948/jurism_style_test_items/collections/D7ZZZGHD).
By itself, this bundle of items is of limited value to users,
but its preparation serves the next element of the design, which is …

**Popup guidance** Citation examples in the Jurism copy of the *Indigo Book*
are each linked to a popup that illustrates how items should be
entered in Jurism to produce the linked citation form. Without such
immediately accessible guidance, citing a novel source would involve
first trawling through the *Indigo Book* or *The Bluebook* to
determine the correct citation form, *and then* struggling with Jurism
to achieve the correct output (tricky, since the Bluebook rules
specify several dozen citation forms for judgments alone).

**Test fixtures** Each citation example in the *Indigo Book* is
mirrored by an automated test fixture that uses the input from the
Jurism library mentioned above to generate the exact output shown in
the example.  The test fixtures are stored in GitHub, a version
control service designed for collaborative editing that is in wide use
for software development. A [test
runner](https://www.npmjs.com/package/citeproc-test-runner) can be
used to verify, in few seconds, that Jurism produces correct citations
for each example in the *Indigo Book*.

**Popup editing** Users who take issue with an example or who wish to
see additional materials covered can open the example or a proposal
form for editing, after logging in (with a GitHub ID and
password). The reporting user can amend the example or enter a new
one, and provide an explanation of their change.

**Discussion** When a user edit is saved, it is filed as a GitHub
“pull request” against the Jurism repository of style tests. This is a
*proposal* for amendment. Participating editors receive email
notification with a link to a GitHub discussion board where the pros
and cons of the amendment can be aired.[^11]

[^11]: Bluebook editors would of course be welcome to join this circle
       if they desire.

**Pull request merger** Amendments that are approved by the editors
are “merged” into the test suite. There is no immediate change to
the content of the *Indigo Book* text, but the discrepancy between
the current and the expected output will be flagged when the
automated tests are run by the Jurism support team.

**Citation stylesheet revision** The automated tests provide quality
control in the preparation of the next version of the automated
*Indigo Book* style, to assure that changes to not have unexpected
side effects, and that they are consistently applied across all
examples.

**Regeneration of Indigo Book text** To prepare a fresh edition of the
*Indigo Book*, the revised stylesheet is used to generate the text of
each example, folding it automatically into the text. The accuracy
and consistency of the examples in the guide is assured, and does not
require the independent line-by-line proofing of current editorial workflows.

**Release of new edition** After the editors sign off on revisions to
the proper text of the Indigo Book*, the new edition is clear for
release.

--------------------------------

This post has focused on the specifics of the editorial workflow
necessary for efficient maintenance of a complex citation style.
There is more to be said, both about technical details and about
broader implications. Scribbling on those topics will await a future
occasion, but some of the latter might be:

1. Authors benefit from the accumulation of purpose-built personal or
   institutional collections that are independent of a monolithic
   service provider.

2. Authors (and editors) benefit from automated citation in
   document preparation.

3. Automation of accurate legal citation opens a path to popularizing
   the practice among non-lawyers, including journalists, promoting
   broader understanding of and engagement with governing
   institutions.

4. The example of structured legal metadata embodied in Jurism may
   stimulate legal aggregators to serve such data with their content,
   further facilitating the sharing of legal information and the
   interoperation of systems.
   

-------------------------------------

## Appendix: Editorial Workflow

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ../assets/images/workflow.svg
```

