pageTitle: Abbreviations in Jurism
author: Frank Bennett

${toc}

------------------------

## Introduction

Jurism has a built-in abbreviation database that performs many
operations automatically, but also enables tweaking by the user where
necessary. This post explains how to open the "Abbreviation Filter"
(the "Filter") and edit abbreviations.

Before beginning, two points on why mastering the Filter is worth an
investment of your time:

> Persistence
> : Abbreviations are tied to the current *style*,
>   even when edited in the context of a specific *document*. When you
>   add or edit an abbreviation using the Filter, your edits are
>   persistent, and will be applied consistently in all other documents
>   that use the same citation style.
> 
> Convenience
> : While citations can be edited directly in
>   the document text, doing so will "freeze" them in their current
>   form: they will no longer update (to *id.* etc.) to reflect changes
>   in their context. Changes applied via the Filter do not have this
>   limitation.

## Opening the Abbreviation Filter

The Filter is linked from an **Abbrevs** button that is found wherever
citations can be opened for editing:

* in the Style Editor of the Jurism client;
* in the default citation insert/edit popup in Jurism documents; and
* in the "Classic" citation insert/edit popup in Jurism documents.

### From the Style Editor

To open the Style Editor, select an item in the center panel of the
Jurism client, then open **Preferences**, choose the **Cite** tab, and
click on the **Style Editor** button. Select the style for which you
wish to examine abbreviations. The **Abbrevs** button is next to the
style selector.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-08-0/abbrevs-in-style-editor.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.2rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

### From the default document popup

In the default "Ribbon" citation popup of a document, the **Abbrevs**
button is to the right of the citation search box, and is enabled
after citations are first refreshed or a citation has been inserted or
edited.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-08-0/abbrevs-in-citation-ribbon.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.2rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

### From the "Classic" document popup

In the alternative "Classic" citation popup (accessible from the
Jurism icon to the left in the "Ribbon" shown above), the **Abbrevs** button
is in the upper-left corner of the popup:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-08-0/abbrevs-in-classic-dialog.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.2rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```
## Abbreviation Filter popup view

Clicking on the **Abbrevs** button opens the Filter popup, which initially looks something like this. Its
four sections are explained below.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-08-0/abbrevs-popup-initial.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.2rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

① Style
: The style to which abbreviation edits will apply is shown at the top. Other styles will not be affected.

② Suppress Jurisdiction Names
: Some styles (Indigo Book not among them) add an indication of the
  country to legal cites. Jurism will suppress that indication for
  countries in this list.  Use the search box to add a country, click
  on the country name to remove it from the list.

③ Lists
: Abbreviations are divided into several categories. Click on the wide
  button to select a different category. Note that the Filter does not
  give direct access to the entire body of abbreviations that might be
  applied: each category shows only the items *relevant to citations in the
  current document* that can be abbreviated. This is by design.

④ Import from defaults / Import from file
: The **Import from defaults** label is actually a button. Click on it to toggle
  back and forth to the alternative, **Import from file**. In the "defaults" view
  shown here, clicking on the **Select a resource** button opens a list with four
  selections:
  * Abbreviations: Scientific Journals
  * Abbreviations: Secondary materials for Commonwealth jurisdictions
  * Abbreviations: Secondary materials for the US
  * Abbreviations: EMPTY

  The abbreviations from these canned lists can be added to the style
  in one of three ways: (1) adding them only where no abbreviation for
  a value yet exists (this is the default); (2) adding them
  unconditionally, but leaving other abbreviations intact; or (3)
  removing all abbreviations and installing only the abbreviations of
  the selected list. Select a list and add it to the style by selecting
  an import method and pressing the **Import** button.
  

## Usage

### Simple abbreviation edit

We begin with an entry that has been set with the full name of a journal
in the **Publication** field.


``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-08-0/sample-raza.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

After inserting the reference into a document, we reopen it for
editing, click on **Abbrevs**, and in the **Journal, Reporter**
abbreviation list, we find the entry shown below. Clicking to the
right of the (lowercased and abridged) name of the journal opens the
entry for editing. After entering text, pressing Enter or **Close**
saves the abbreviation for the current style.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-08-0/sample-raza-abbrev.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

The citation will now render as:

- Nancy Villarreal, *Improving Legal Aid to Rural Communities in California*, 20 <span class="small-caps">Berkeley La Raza L.J.</span> 191 (2010).


### Suppressing the court name with a specific journal

A common citation pattern for cases sets the court and the year in a trailing parenthetical after the
primary detais:

- *Smith v. Jones*, 998 P.2d 250 (Utah Ct. App. 1999).

However, in citations to a reporter dedicated to judgments of a particular
court, the court name should not be included in the trailing parenthetical. In this example,
we begin with a case cited to *United States Reports*, which reports U.S. Supreme Court judgments
exclusively:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-08-0/sample-sc.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

To suppress the court name when this reporter is used, we again cite
the item in a document (or open it in the **Style Editor** set to our
target style), open the reference for editing, and click the
**Abbrevs** button. In the **Journal, Reporter** abbreviation list, we
enter a marker composed of an exclamation point, the name of the
variable to be suppressed (in this case ``authority``), and three
greater-than signs, followed by the journal abbreviation:

> ``!authority>>>U.S.``

The citation
processor will interpret this mess as an instruction:

> *abbreviate like this BUT ALSO suppress the* ``authority`` *variable afterward*

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-08-0/sample-sc-abbrev.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

In the JM Indigo Book Law Review style, the case will now be cited correctly as:

- *Roper v. Simmons*, 543 U.S. 551 (2005)


### Partial suppression of a court name

In a variant of the example above, some reporters are dedicated to judgments of several courts in a particular
state. In this case, the state designation should be removed from the trailing parenthetical, but the
court name should be retained if relevant. For this example, we begin with an entry for a decision of the
California Court of Appeals, cited to the California Reporter, Second Series:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-08-0/sample-cal.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

To remove only a portion of the court name, the steps are the same as the previous example, but the
word or phrase to be removed from the ``authority`` variable is appended with a colon:

> ``!authority:Cal.>>>Cal. Rptr. 2d``

Note that this does *not* mean that "Cal." is to be removed from the reporter name. It applies only
to the court name provided to the citation processor in the ``authority`` variable. So the instruction
is interpreted to mean:

> *abbreviate like this BUT ALSO remove the string* ``Cal.`` *from the authority variable when it is used afterward*

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-08-0/sample-cal-abbrev.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

With these settings, the citation is rendered as:

- *People v. Foranyic*, 74 Cal. Rptr. 2d 804 (Ct. App. 1998).
