pageTitle: Jurism, Supervision, and Collaboration
author: Frank Bennett

In a standard Jurism setup, **My Library** is private. Even when
synced to ``zotero.org``, the contents can be accessed only by the
owner’s own account. **Group libraries** allow access by multiple
users, with read/write permissions on metadata and attachments
controlled by role assignments to each member of the library.

Group libraries lend themselves to collaborative editing, whether in
real time in Google Docs, or asynchronously with independent edits
merged using a *Track Changes* feature. However, there is one
potential pitfall in collaborative environments. If a user adds a
Jurism reference to the shared document from their personal library,
citation updates will continue to work, but collaborators will not
have access to the source item, and will not be able to make changes
to it. If a private citation contains a spelling error (say), the only
way for collaborators to make a correction to it is to edit the
citation directly in the document text—but this is a no-no, as the
edit will “freeze” the citation: if it is a full reference when
edited, for example, it will no longer transform to its ibid or
subsequent form according to context.

To avoid the problem, a Jurism document can be “locked” to a specific
shared library to which the user (and all collaborators) have
read/write access. When a lock is applied, all items cited in the
document, and all items subsequently added, are copied to the
shared library, and the document’s citation link is adjusted to
point at the copy. This gives all collaborators access to the
library content as well as the document, so that bibliographic
edits can be done in the usual way, by editing the library item
and refreshing citations.

This feature is particularly useful for writing supervision. A student
author will typically begin their project with references from their
personal library. When the time arrives for closer supervision,
manually changing references in the document to point at a shared
library is an unwelcome distraction, and pressure of time may make it
impossible. The locking feature gives supervisor immediate read/write
access to references cited in the document, where problems and
misunderstandings can be sorted out efficiently at source.

The steps for “locking” a document, to be performed by the supervisor
or editor, are as follows:

1. **Library creation:** In Jurism, create a group library to hold
   the document citations (extraction to My Library is not supported).

2. **Sync to client:** Sync the new library to the Jurism desktop
   client.

3. **Document settings:** With Jurism running, open the document, and
   in the word processor open **Document Preferences**, then pick the
   tab for **Project Name**. After ticking the box next to **release
   for editing**, select the group library from the dropdown list.

4. **Reference extraction:** When **Document Preferences** is closed,
   Jurism may hang briefly while creating items for citations in the
   document.  After it returns, click **Refresh** once to pick up any
   items that may have been missed on the first pass.

5. **Sync:** Sync Jurism to push the newly created items to the group library.

6. **Invite:** Invite collaborators to the Zotero group.

7. **Canonical document:** Save the document and provide it to collaborators as the new working copy.
   (If this step is performed in Google Docs, this step is not necessary.)

---------------------------

So long as collaborators work from the new, locked copy of the project
document, all references will land in the shared library. This may give
rise to duplicates, so the library should be curated from time to time
by the editor to merge (not to delete) them.

----------------------



``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ../assets/images/document-locking.png
```


