pageTitle: Using Jurism with the Indigo Book
author: Frank Bennett

The month of July ushered in something old and something new for
writers on the law. For the former, we are pleased to see the release
of another edition of venerable The Bluebook, now within reach of its
centenary year.[^1] For the latter, after much waiting and somewhat
less anticipation,[^2] we welcome the full automation of the Indigo
Book[^3] in the Jurism reference manager.[^4] Tight integration of
Jurism and the Indigo Book text offers authors unrivalled convenience,
with detailed user guidance on data entry, and features that Jurism
inherits from its well-established "upstream parent" Zotero:
point-and-click insertion of accurate references in Word, LibreOffice,
and Google Docs, robust support for collaboration, and much more.

This post covers the basic steps for getting started with Jurism's new
"JM Indigo Book" and "JM Indigo Book Law Review" styles. (The
discussion assumes that you have installed the Jurism client and a
browser connector for Google Chrome or Firefox, and that you have
configured the Word or LibreOffice integration plugins.)

---------------------------

## Data Entry Guidance

The [Indigo Book copy](https://juris-m.github.io/indigobook/) hosted
on the Jurism project site contains example citations marked with a
magnifying glass:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-17-0/example-lochner.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

Clicking on a link opens a popup with the citation at the top, a list of fields
and values in the middle, and an inviting **Login** button at the bottom:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-17-0/example-lochner-popup.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

The displayed values are those that were entered into Jurism (in the
public [Jurism Style Test Items](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2319948/jurism_style_test_items)
library) for this item. When synced to the Jurism client, the entry looks like this:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-17-0/example-lochner-jurism.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

"What is cool about that?" you may ask. Well, the Bluebook rules are
"uniform" only in the sense that they are written down: they specify
dozens of citation patterns for legal cases, and the situation with
regulations and statutes is only slightly better. Jurism identifies
the citation pattern to apply based on which fields are used, and in
some cases which are left empty.[^5] Correct data entry is therefore
essential, and the popups give the precise guidance that is required
for each citation form.

## Automated Citations

### Style editor

The **Style Editor** embedded in Jurism is a convenient tool for
quickly checking the citation produced by an item. To open the editor,
select an item in the center pane, open **Preferences**, select the
**Cite** tab, and click on the **Style Editor** button. In the editor,
select the "JM Indigo Book" or "JM Indigo Book Law Review" style,
and the citation will be displayed:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-17-0/example-lochner-style-editor.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

### Word processors

Jurism supports insertion of references into three word processing
systems: Word (Windows and Mac), LibreOffice, and Google Docs. In-document
citations are dynamic, the convenience of which is easier to illustrate than
to explain. Rolling the cursor over the image below will run a short screencast
of the following operations:[^6]

1. Selecting a citation style;
2. Entering a citation with a signal selected by typing <span class="small-caps">ctrl</span>-C
   in the **Prefix** field;
3. Entering a subsequent reference to the same source;
4. Entering a case citation with subsequent history, typing a signal directly into the **Prefix** field;
5. Entering a citation composed of two unrelated references, adjusting the order of items in the
   citation widget after entry.
6. A cut-and-paste edit of the text, followed by a citation refresh to adjust citations to their new context.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src:   ./2020-07-17-0/example-wordprocessor.png
animate: true
style: "width:100%;margin-left:0%;margin-right:0%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:2rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;"
```

The video is somewhat blurred, but if you watch closely you may notice
a difference between the two composite citations:

* <span class="small-caps">West</span>, *supra* note 1; *Lochner*, 198 U.S. 45.
* *Lochner v. New York*, 198 U.S. 45 (1905), *overruled by* *West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish*, 300 U.S. 379 (1937).

The first pair is joined with a semicolon, and the second with a
comma.  The difference is important: a comma join signals that the
references form a related series. Relations between items are part of
the permanent record in the Jurism library, Here is a quick illustration of
how to set them up:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src:   ./2020-07-17-0/example-relations.png
animate: true
style: "width:100%;margin-left:0%;margin-right:0%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:2rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;"
```

--------------------------


This brief introduction has shown how the integration of the Indigo
Book and Jurism can ease one of the persistent bottlenecks in the
legal writing process. There is much more to the story (what is behind
that **Login** button anyway?), which we leave as a topic for future
posts.

-----------------------



[^1]: <span class="small-caps">The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation</span> (Columbia Law Review Ass’n et al. eds., 21st ed. 2020).

[^2]: *See, e.g.*, Stephen M. Darrow & Jonathan J. Darrow, *Beating
      the Bluebook Blues: A Response to Judge Posner*, 109 <span
      class="small-caps">Mich. L. Rev.</span> 92 (2011), suggesting that:

      > [T]he Stanford Center for Computers and Law … or some other
      > such high-prestige venture, may wish to take up the banner of
      > moving our system of legal citation into a new age of
      > efficiency …
      
      … a challenge taken up individually by the current
      author, as a graduate of U.C. Berkeley and UCLA, and as staff of
      Nagoya University by way of the School of Oriental and African
      Studies, University of London. Prestigious institutions all.

[^3]: <span class="small-caps">Sprigman et al.</span>, <span
      class="small-caps">The Indigo Book: A Manual of Legal
      Citation</span> (Public Resource, 2016).

[^4]: <span class="small-caps">Frank Bennett</span>, <span
      class="small-caps">Jurism</span>, v. 5.0.89m11 (Jul. 2020), [https://juris-m.github.io](https://juris-m.github.io).

[^5]: As a striking example, the various "vendor-neutral" citation
      forms used in a dozen or so US jurisdictions are generated
      automatically from entries that carry only the case name,
      jurisdiction, court, judgment number, year-as-volume, and date
      of decision.
      
[^6]: The opening sequence is from the Stock Footage collection by ``pilotsflying``, at  [https://www.videvo.net/profile/pilotsflying](https://www.videvo.net/profile/pilotsflying).
