pageTitle: Indigo Book + Jurism: Proposing Changes 
author: Frank Bennett
toc-min: true

${toc}

## Overview

This post explains how to contribute to the update of the [JM Indigo
Book](https://juris-m.github.io/indigobook/) style to fully reflect
the citation rules of <span class="small-caps">The Bluebook: A Uniform
System of Citation</span> (Columbia Law Review Ass’n et al. eds., 21st
ed. 2020). The steps described here support the workflow described
separately in the post [Indigo Book + Jurism
Integration](https://juris-m.github.io/posts/2020-06-30-0.html), and
are limited to a review of citation examples.

## Opening a GitHub account

To save proposed edits, you will need a GitHub account. Accounts are
free, and GitHub is not in the targeted advertising business.  (If you
already have an account, skip to the next section.)

Visiting [https://github.com/](https://github.com/), you will find a form
like this:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-21-0/github-signup.png
style: "width:60%;margin-left:20%;margin-right:20%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;"
```

Enter your chosen screen name, email address, and a password, and
create an account.  Make a note of your ID and password, you will use
them in the steps below.


## Reserving an Indigo Book chapter

We have prepared a [coordination
spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OSZRZfsDWcU-ahWugFyCm47stoxlZl0JHoqQ2Q0xlQo/edit?usp=sharing)
listing the number of citations in each chapter and table. To reserve
a section as your own, enter your GitHub ID in the first column, and
**in progress** will show as its status.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-21-0/google-drive-in-progress.png
style: "width:100%;margin-left:0%;margin-right:0%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;"
```

If you would prefer not to show your ID in the spreadsheet, please
enter a nickname in the form and contact me, either via Twitter DM on
``@fgbjr``, or via the [Jurism support mailing list](http://juris-m.github.com/mail/), so that we can
include your name in the credits when this is all done.

## Editing and saving examples

Each linked example in the Jurism copy of the Indigo Book is marked
with a magnifying glass. For each example, find the rule that covers
the same formatting issue in the 21st edition of The Bluebook, and
make any needed changes following the steps below. The edit should be
to the *form* of the citation example, not its content: do not copy
the Bluebook example verbatim!

To proceed with editing an example, click on its link to open the
popup view.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-21-0/example-popup-view.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;"
```

### Logging in

Clicking on the **Login** button will either open a login prompt, or (if your
browser is already logged in to GitHub) immediately open a view like that below:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-21-0/example-popup-logged-in.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;"
```

### Editing

Clicking the **Edit** button will open the example with a simple
WYSIWYG editor at the top, and a comment box at the bottom. Make any
necessary changes to the citation form, and provide a short
explanation of your change in the comment box.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-21-0/example-popup-edited.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;"
```

### Saving

Clicking the **Save** button will save the entry as a GitHub "pull
request" for review by the editors. If your change is accepted, the
automated JM Indigo Book and JM Indigo Book Law Review styles will be
updated to produce the edited version of the citation. After saving,
the popup will show a **Review** button:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-21-0/example-popup-saved.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;"
```

### Review and notifications

You can visit the pull request on GitHub by clicking on the **Review**
button. The button is ephemeral: if you close the popup, your edit
will not be remembered, you will need to start over, your second save
will create a pull request, and your previous edit for this example
will be discarded. To keep track of your edits, you can turn on GitHub
notifications. There are two steps.

First, register the email address to which notifications should be delivered. Click on the **Settings**
tab, in the sidebar of the Settings page, click on **Notifications**, and enter and save your email address.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-21-0/github-notifications.png
style: "width:100%;margin-left:0%;margin-right:0%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;"
```

Second, click on the **Watch** icon for the ``jsti-indigobook`` repository, and select **Watch** to
receive notifications of all discussion posts.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-21-0/github-watching.png
style: "width:100%;margin-left:0%;margin-right:0%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;"
```

After setting up notifications, you will receive mail for discussions relating to the update.


## Proposing new citation forms

You will have noticed the **Propose cite example** button that lurks
in the upper right corner of the page. You can use it to propose novel
cite examples to be added to Indigo Book, either because they are
covered by The Bluebook and missing from the Indigo Book, or because
they are in use in a jurisdiction with which you are familiar, and
are missing in both. The Proposal popup works in exactly the same way as
the link-example popups: just open the popup for editing, enter the example
citation text and a description, and save.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-07-21-0/example-popup-proposal.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:3rem;border-radius:2em 2em 0 0;"
```

Proposals are not anchored to a particular section of the Indigo Book, so please
provide a full explanation of where it should be placed in the guide, and the
reason for the addition.


## Logging out

If you are working on a public-access computer, be sure to log on when you are done.
Note that the logout button in the Indigo Book popups affects only the *Indigo Book* login:
you must log out from [https://github.com/](https://github.com/) separately.

When you are finished with a set of examples, be sure to mark them as
complete in the
[spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OSZRZfsDWcU-ahWugFyCm47stoxlZl0JHoqQ2Q0xlQo/edit?usp=sharing).




