pageTitle: Multilingual records in Jurism
author: Frank Bennett

${toc}

------------------------

## Introduction

Jurism is able to store records with multilingual variants
(translations or transliterations) of names and the major text fields.
This post explains how to configure a multilingual environment in
Jurism and edit records with language variants.

## Setup

When Jurism is first installed, it is not "aware" of variant languages
or scripts. To configure for multilingual operation, visit
``Preferences`` → ``Languages``, and type a language name in the input
box that says ``Add a language``.  This will open a pulldown menu as
shown below. (Note that, due to a small bug, you currently need to
click on a menu entry to select it, pressing Enter does not work.)

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-11-08-0/lang-pulldown.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.5rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

To add transliterations for a language, click on the ``(+)`` symbol next
to it. There are several options for sub-variants. For most script conversions,
select **script** and scroll to find the appropriate script.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-11-08-0/lang-script.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.5rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

Romanization is a special case. Because a script conversion to the roman
alphabet is not a simple one-to-one mapping for most languages, the
rule set should be indicated. Mainstream rules for romanization are
set by a project of the American Library Association and the U.S.
Library of Congress known as "ALALC-97." This is listed in the **Variant**
menu:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-11-08-0/lang-romanize.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.5rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

To give your language variants more friendly names, click on the code for each
in the leftmost column, and enter a descriptive name for it, and press Enter.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-11-08-0/lang-labels.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.5rem;border-radius:3em 3em 0 0;"
```

## Item language

While it is not required, Jurism will work most smoothly with multilingual content
if the **Language** field is set to the two-character ISO code of the primary language
of the item. Let us take a Japanese entry as an example, for which the ISO code is ``ja``:

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-11-08-0/lang-plain-item.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.5rem;"
```


## Headline field language settings

We will refer to fields that show *before* variants are added as
"headline fields."  In our example, the headline Title field value is
吾輩はねこである. To add variants to this field, place the cursor over
the field label and right-click. This shows the available variant
language options. Note that *transliteration* options show only for
the headline field's own language, which defaults to those appropriate
to the language set in the **Language** field.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-11-08-0/lang-variants-1.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.5rem;"
```

Selecting an option under the **Add Variant** heading adds a field pre-populated
with the headline content. Press Backspace to clear the field and enter the appropriate
content. Then press enter to close the field and save the item.

``` yaml
type: embedWideImage
src: ./2020-11-08-0/lang-variants-2.png
style: "width:80%;margin-left:10%;margin-right:10%;border:2px solid #ccc;padding:1.5rem;"
```

## Conclusion

The sections above cover the basic operations for setting up
multilingual support in Jurism and manipulating multilingual
records. If you have questions, feel free to post queries to
the [Jurism support list](https://juris-m.github.io/mail).
