pageTitle: Parallel citation markup in CSL-M stylesheets
author: Frank Bennett

One of the hardest problems to unlock in the implementation of
Bluebook rules is the convention of parallel citation. As noted in the
previous post on this topic, these are frequently used in legal
writing, and have three common flavors:

Parallel reports
: Truly parallel cites to multiple reports of the same case:

  > *Harden v. Playboy Enterprises, Inc.*, 261 Ill. App. 3d 443, 633 N.E.2d 764 (1993).

Subsequent histories
: A chain of appellate decisions in the same matter:

  > *Energy & Env’t Legal Inst. v. Epel*, 43 F. Supp. 3d 1171
  > (D. Colo. 2014), *aff’d*, 793 F.3d 1169 (10th Cir.), *cert. denied*,
  > 136 S. Ct. 595 (2015).

Commentaries
: A series of published comments interpreting a case:

  > Cass. 1ere civ., March 28, 2000, JCP G, 2000, 10296, J. <span
  > class="small-caps">Sainte-Rose</span>; D, 2000, somm. p. 358,
  > <span class="small-caps">Ph. Delebecque</span>, p. 900, <span
  > class="small-caps">S. Piedelievre</span>.

This is a technical post covering features of the CSL-M styling
language that are used to produce these effects. The discussion below
assumes a general familiarity with the Citation Style Language ([CSL](https://citationstyles.org)).

## Group attributes

In formatting a series of related cites, certain elements are removed
from certain positions in the series, according to certain
conditions. The rules for doing so are generally left unstated, but
the approach adopted by Jurism can express every pattern that I have
so far encountered in the wild.

In Jurism CSL-M style code, rules relating to parallel formatting are
expressed as attributes on a ``cs:group`` element. Attributes that
describe conditions will suppress the output of the group when the
condition is satisfied. Parallel attributes take effect only on cites
within a related series. In Jurism, citations are *related* when they
are linked in the client via the **Related** tab.

### Attribute: ``parallel-first="<variables>"``

> **Rule:** Suppress group output when all listed variables match
> their values in the immediately preceding cite within a related
> series. When one or more of the listed variables does *not* match,
> the group is rendered, and the rendered values are used for
> comparison when the next cite is rendered, and so on to the end of
> the series.

A typical application of the ``parallel-first`` attribute would
be the following:

``` xml
<group parallel-first="title">
    <text variable="title"/>
</group>
```

In the citation <span style="border-bottom:1px solid black;">*Harden v. Playboy Enterprises, Inc.*, 261
Ill. App. 3d 443, 633 N.E.2d 764 (1993)</span>, the "Ill. App." and "N.E.2d"
cites share the same title, and the second occurrence is therefore
suppressed.

In the citation <span style="border-bottom:1px solid black;">*In re
Verizon Internet Servs., Inc.*, 257 F. Supp. 2d 244 (D.D.C. 2003),
*rev’d on other grounds*, *Recording Indus. Ass’n of Am.,
Inc. v. Verizon Internet Servs., Inc.*, 351 F.3d 1229
(D.C. Cir. 2003)</span>, the second case name differs, and it is
therefore rendered (and would become the new "master" title were there
three cites in the series).

### Attribute: ``parallel-last="<variables>"``

> **Rule:** Suppress group output when all listed variables match
> their values in the immediately following cite within a related
> series. When one or more of the listed variables does *not* match,
> the group is rendered, and the *next cite's* values are used for
> comparison when the next cite is rendered, and so on to the
> penultimate cite in the series.

The ``parallel-last`` attribute might be applied as follows:

```
<group parallel-last="issued">
    <date variable="issued" form="text" date-parts="year"/>
</group>
```

In the citation <span style="border-bottom:1px solid black;">*Energy &
Env’t Legal Inst. v. Epel*, 43 F. Supp. 3d 1171 (D. Colo. 2014),
*aff’d*, 793 F.3d 1169 (10th Cir.), *cert. denied*, 136 S. Ct. 595
(2015)</span>, the date of "2014" is rendered on the "F. Supp 3d" cite
because the appeal reported in the "F.3d" cite was decided in 2015;
and the date is suppressed in the "F.3d" cite because it matches the
date of the following disposition in the Supreme Court.

### Attribute: ``parallel-last-to-first="<variables>"``

> **Rule:** For all *following* cites in the series, treat the
> the listed variables as if set with ``parallel-first``, even
> if set with ``parallel-last``. The attribute does not affect
> rendering of the group on which it is set.

The ``parallel-last-to-first`` attribute features in the following
construct for vendor-neutral cites in the Ohio jurisdiction:

```
<group delimiter="-" parallel-last-to-first="issued">
  <number variable="collection-number"/>
  <names variable="authority">
    <name/>
    <institution form="short"/>
  </names>
  <number variable="page-first"/>
</group>
```

In most US vendor-neutral citation patterns, the year of decision is
set as a special volume number in the ``collection-number`` variable.
The date of decision should therefore be omitted from subsequent
cites in a series in which it would normally appear. Switching its
rendering rule to ``parallel-first`` achieves that result.

In the citation <span style="border-bottom:1px solid
black;">*Bonacorsi v. Wheeling & Lake Erie Ry. Co.*, 95 Ohio St.3d
314, 2002-Ohio-2220, 767 N.E.2d 707</span>, the date is omitted from
the "Ohio St.3d" cite because it matches the date in the
vendor-neutral cite in second position. The vendor-neutral cite is
built from the construct above, and switches the treatment of the
``issued`` variable to ``parallel-first`` in subsequent citations that
apply ``parallel-last="issued"``. This takes effect in the final
"N.E.2d" cite in the series, where the date is suppressed because
it too matches the date of its predecessor.

The ``parallel-last-to-first`` attribute will be useful almost
exclusively in true parallel citations, where a value (such as a date
or a court name) are expected to be uniform across the related series
of cites.

### Attribute: ``parallel-delimiter-override="<string>"``

> **Rule:** Replace the default inter-cite delimiter with the
> designated string when joining this cite with its predecessor. Like
> the other parallel atrributes, This attribute takes effect only if
> the cite is a member of a related series. This attribute does not
> affect the rendering of the group.

The ``parallel-delimiter-override`` attribute is typically applied to
a wrapper on all cites that might be rendered as a related series.

```
<layout delimiter="; ">
  <group parallel-delimiter-override=", ">
    <!-- CSL code for formatting citations goes here -->
  </group>
</layout>
```

In the citation <span style="border-bottom:1px solid black;">*Harden
v. Playboy Enterprises, Inc.*, 261 Ill. App. 3d 443, 633 N.E.2d 764
(1993)</span>, the "Ill. App." and "N.E.2d" cites are joined with a
comma.  Ordinarily, cites not members of a related series are joined
with a semicolon.

### Attribute: ``parallel-delimiter-override-on-suppress="<string>"``

> **Rule:** For this cite *only*, replace the inter-cite join (be it the
> default delimiter or the value of ``parallel-delimiter-override``)
> with the designated string if, and only if, this group is suppressed
> by the ``parallel-first`` or ``parallel-last`` rule. This attribute
> does not itself affect the rendering of the group on which it is set.

-------------------------

As noted above, these attributes have been sufficient to address all
instances of parallel citation that I have so far encountered.  If
further cases emerge that demand additional attributes or adjustments
to the logic described here, there may be changes. For the present,
though, this is looking pretty good.
